Ways to pay your taxes 

To explore all of your payment options visit IRS.gov/payments. To minimize interest and penalties, we recommend paying your taxes in full. However, if you’re unable to pay in full, you can request an Installment Agreement or Offer in Compromise. These payment plans allow you to pay your taxes in installments over time, to pay less than you owe, or both. It’s also important to stay current on your payments for future taxes. This means making your estimated tax payments, withholding payments, or federal tax deposits as required by law. 



Options for paying in full  - Electronic payments 

We offer several electronic payment options. You can pay online, by phone or from your mobile device with the IRS2Go app. Go to IRS. gov/payments for the payment options, telephone numbers and easy secure ways to pay your taxes. 

Options for paying in full  -IRS Direct Pay 

IRS Direct Pay is free and available at IRS.gov/DirectPay, where you can securely pay your taxes directly from your checking or savings accounts without any fees or pre-registration. Schedule payments up to 30 days in advance, and receive instant confirmation that you submitted your payment 


Options for paying in full  -Debit or credit card 


You can pay your taxes by debit or credit card. Both paper and electronic filers can pay their taxes by phone or online through any of the authorized debit and credit card processors. Though the IRS does not charge a fee for this service, the card processors do. Go to IRS.gov/ payments for authorized card processors and their phone numbers. 


Options for paying in full  -IRS2Go 


To pay your federal taxes quickly on the go, use the IRS2Go mobile app. IRS2Go provides easy access to Direct Pay, offering you a free, secure way to pay directly from your checking or savings account. You can also make a debit or credit card payment through an approved payment processor for a fee. You can download IRS2Go from Google Play Store, the Apple App Store or Amazon Appstore,, to pay your taxes anytime, anywhere. 


Options for paying in full  - Electronic Federal Tax Payment System 


The Electronic Federal Tax Payment System is a free service that gives taxpayers a safe and convenient way to pay individual and business taxes by phone or online. To enroll or for more information, visit EFTPS. gov or call 800-555-4477.



Federal Tax Lien: A legal claim against property 


A lien is a legal claim against all your current and future property. When you don’t pay your first bill for taxes due, a lien is created by law and attaches to your property. It applies to property (such as your home and car) and to any current and future rights you have to property. 


Notice of Federal Tax Lien


A Notice of Federal Tax Lien gives public notice to creditors. We file the Notice of Federal Tax Lien so we can establish the priority of our claim versus the claims of other creditors. The Notice of Federal Tax Lien is filed with local or state authorities, such as county recorder of deeds or the Secretary of State offices. 
If a Notice of Federal Tax Lien is filed against you, it may be reported by consumer credit reporting agencies. This can have a negative effect on your credit rating and make it difficult for you to receive credit (such as a loan or credit card). Employers, landlords and others may also use this information and not favorably view the fact that a Notice of Federal Tax Lien has been filed against you. However by law, there will be no filing of the Notice of Federal Tax Lien and no levies issued to collect an individual shared responsibility payment associated with the Affordable Care Act. 


If a Notice of Federal Tax Lien is filed against you 


You should pay the full amount you owe immediately. The Notice of Federal Tax Lien only shows your assessed balance as of the date of the notice. It doesn’t show your payoff balance or include our charges for filing and releasing the lien. To find out the full amount you must pay to have the lien released, call 1-800-913-6050 or 859-320-3526 if you are calling from outside of the United States. If you have questions, call the number on your lien notice or 1-800-829-1040 or visit www.irs. gov/Businesses/Small-Businesses-&-Self-Employed/Understanding-a-Federal-Tax-Lien, or view instructional videos at www.irsvideos.gov/ Individual/IRSLiens. 


How to recover economic damages 


If we wrongfully seized your property, we lost or misplaced your payment, or there was a direct debit Installment Agreement processing error and you incurred bank charges, we may reimburse you for charges you paid. For more information, see Form 8546, Claim for Reimbursement of Bank Charges. If your claim is denied, you can sue the federal government for economic damages. 


Innocent Spouse Relief 


Generally, both you and your spouse are responsible, jointly and individually, for paying any tax, interest, or penalties on your joint return. If you believe your current or former spouse should be solely responsible for an incorrect item or an underpayment of tax on your joint tax return, you may be eligible for Innocent Spouse Relief. This could change the amount you owe, or you may be entitled to a refund. You must submit Form 8857, Request for Innocent Spouse Relief, no later than two years from the date of our first attempt to collect the outstanding debt, except for requests for equitable relief under Internal Revenue Code section 6015(f). For additional information, see Publication 971, Innocent Spouse Relief 


Representation during the collection process 


During the collection process, or an appeal before the IRS Office of Appeals you can be represented by yourself, an attorney, a certified public accountant, an enrolled agent, an immediate family member, or any person enrolled to practice before the IRS. If you’re a business, full-time employees, general partners, or bona fide officers can also represent you. 
To have your representative appear before us, contact us on your behalf, and/or receive your confidential material, file Form 2848, Power of Attorney and Declaration of Representative. 
To authorize someone to receive or inspect confidential material, file Form 8821, Tax Information Authorization. 


Sharing your tax information 


During the collection process, we’re authorized to share your tax information in some cases with city and state tax agencies, the Department of Justice, federal agencies, people you authorize to represent you, and certain foreign governments (under tax treaty provisions). 

We may contact a third party 


The law allows us to contact others (such as neighbors, banks, employers, or employees) to investigate your case. You have the right to request a list of third parties contacted about your case. 